README.md, before:

# ttt - TicTacToe

This repo is an exploration in custom monads, specifically to represent the game of TicTacToe,
following the "Book of Monads" descriptions in Chapter 13. Implementations are in scala, using
the cats library.

## [Common](src/main/scala/sumidiot/bom/ttt/Common.scala)

This object contains some helpers that are used across a few implementations. In particular,
representations of the players and board positions, as well as some logic for calculating
done-ness and winners. Note, however, that we intend to pull that logic out for use by any of
the monad implementations.

My concrete implementations of the versions below tend to rely on a `State[GameState, _]`,
where `GameState` captures who'se turn it is and the state of the board. This is a bit different
from the book, which went with `TicTacToe (ReaderT Player (StateT Board IO))`. That version wasn't
as easy for me to get my head around, but maybe I'll return to it later.

## [Final](src/main/scala/sumidiot/bom/ttt/Final.scala)

This object contains the 'final-style' implementation for the custom TicTacToe monad. It's pretty
trippy, honestly.

## [Initial](src/main/scala/sumidiot/bom/ttt/Initial.scala)

This object contains the 'initial-style' implementation for the custom TicTacToe monad. Actually,
it only contains most of it, I haven't worked out the `@tailrec` implementation of `flatMap` which
would be required generally for cats instances of `Monad`.

I'll probably evolve the Final and Free implementations, leaving this one alone for a while,
because mostly this is used to motivate the Free monad.

## [Free](src/main/scala/sumidiot/bom/ttt/TTTFree.scala)

This object contains the `Free`-based implementation of the TicTacToe monad. It's much nicer than
the custom initial one.

Commit message:

Cleanup and organize to highlight the similarities between implementations

README.md, after:

# ttt - TicTacToe

This repo is an exploration in custom monads, specifically to represent the game of TicTacToe,
following the "Book of Monads" descriptions in Chapter 13. Implementations are in scala, using
the cats library.

The book implements `takeIfNotTaken` for its custom monads. We extend this with `runRandom`,
which probably doesn't do really the right thing with `Random` as a monad, but it's a start.
We're currently also in the process of implementing `winner` and `gameEnded`, because currently
those implementations are only for the `State`-based monad, but they should really be for
any monad implementation.

The current `GameState` is somewhat insufficient, really there should be two classes of states,
one with a 'next player' and one representing a 'done' game (with either draw or winner,
and possibly, for completeness/verifiability, the winning combo).

## [Common](src/main/scala/sumidiot/bom/ttt/Common.scala)

This object contains some helpers that are used across a few implementations. In particular,
representations of the players and board positions, as well as some logic for calculating
done-ness and winners. Note, however, that we intend to pull that logic out for use by any of
the monad implementations.

My concrete implementations of the versions below tend to rely on a `State[GameState, _]`,
where `GameState` captures who'se turn it is and the state of the board. This is a bit different
from the book, which went with `TicTacToe (ReaderT Player (StateT Board IO))`. That version wasn't
as easy for me to get my head around, but maybe I'll return to it later.

## [Final](src/main/scala/sumidiot/bom/ttt/Final.scala)

This object contains the 'final-style' implementation for the custom TicTacToe monad. It's pretty
trippy, honestly.

## [Initial](src/main/scala/sumidiot/bom/ttt/Initial.scala)

This object contains the 'initial-style' implementation for the custom TicTacToe monad. Actually,
it only contains most of it, I haven't worked out the `@tailrec` implementation of `flatMap` which
would be required generally for cats instances of `Monad`.

I'll probably evolve the Final and Free implementations, leaving this one alone for a while,
because mostly this is used to motivate the Free monad.

## [Free](src/main/scala/sumidiot/bom/ttt/TTTFree.scala)

This object contains the `Free`-based implementation of the TicTacToe monad. It's much nicer than
the custom initial one.
